Unit 5
READING PASSAGE 1
You should spend about 20 minutes on Questions 1-13, which are based on Reading Passage 1
below.
Floating Islands
A  A floating island is a mass of floating aquatic plants, mud, and peat ranging in thickness from a few inches to several feet. Floating islands are a common natural phenomenon that are found in many parts of the world. They exist less commonly as a man-made phenomenon. Floating islands are generally found on marshlands, lakes, and similar wetland locations, and can be many hectares in size.
B Natural floating islands are composed of vegetation growing on a buoyant mat of plant roots or other organic detritus. Some cenotes in northern Mexico have natural floating islands. They typically occur when growths of cattails, bulrush, sedge, and reeds extend outward from the shoreline of a wetland area. As the water gets deeper the roots no longer reach the bottom, so they use the oxygen in their root mass for buoyancy, and the surrounding vegetation for support to retain their top- side-up orientation. The area beneath these floating mats is exceptionally rich in aquatic life forms. Eventually, storm events tear whole sections free from the shore, and the islands thus formed migrate around a lake with changing winds, finally either reattaching to a new area of the shore, or breaking up in heavy weather.
C In addition to this, explosive volcanic eruptions may create pumice rafts, which can float on the ocean for months or even years before becoming fully saturated and sinking. Over time, larger rafts can have grasses and palm trees growing on them. Natural floating islands may have been the source of many “disappearing island” legends, such as those surrounding Avalon.
D An example of this kind of islands can be found in Victoria, Australia—the floating islands of Pirron Yallock. Accounts of how the floating islands were formed have been given by local residents. These accounts have not been disputed in the scientific literature. Prior to 1938, the lake was an intermittent swamp which usually dried out in summer. A drainage channel had been excavated at the lowest point of the

 
swamp at the northern part of its perimeter. This is likely to have encouraged the development or enlargement of a peat mat on the floor of the depression. Potatoes were grown in the centre of the depression where the peat rose to a slight mound. The peat was ignited by afire in 1938, which burned from the dry edges towards a central damp section. A track was laid through the swamp last century and pavement work was carried out in 1929- The causeway restricted flow between the depression and its former southern bank. These roadworks, plus collapse and partial infilling of the northern drainage channel, created drainage conditions conducive to a transition from swamp to permanent lake.
E The floating islands of Pirron Yallock were formed in 1952 after heavy rainfall raised the water level in a peaty swamp, the outlet of which had been blocked by road construction. Peat is very buoyant and the central raised section which had been isolated by the fire broke away from the rocky basalt floor as the water level rose in winter. The main island then broke up into several smaller islands which drifted slowly for up to 200 metres within the confines of the lake and ranged in size from 2 to 30 metres in diametre. The years immediately following experienced average or above average rainfall and the water level was maintained. Realignment of the highway in 1963 completely blocked the former southern outlet of the depression, further enhancing its ability to retain water. The road surface also provided an additional source of runoff to the depression.
F The area has since been granted protected status under conservation legislation and, under present policy, the government has a responsibility to maintain the floating islands. The islands reportedly floated uninterrupted for 30 years. However, a drought in 1982 lowered the water level sufficiently to ground the islands and they have not been observed to float since then. However, a previous study attributed the failure of the lake to recover its water level to abstraction of water by a nearby motel. In 1980, the Rural Water Commission issued a nearby motel a licence to remove water from the lake and occasionally water was taken for the purpose of firefighting. The most significant amount taken for firefighting was during severe fires in February 1983.
G Floating islands have attracted broad attention because they are uncommon and their behaviour has provided not only explanations for events in myth and legend but also great scope for discussion and speculation amongst scientists and other observers.

 

Questions 1-4
Choose the correct letter, A, B, C or D.
Write the correct letter in boxes 1-4 on your answer sheet.
1	The main topic discussed in the text is 
	A the floating islands of Pirron Yallock.
B the scientists’ research on natural floating islands.
C the cause and process of the formation and disappearance of natural floating islands. 
D the plant growing on floating islands.
2	According to the text, windstorms
A help a buoyant mat breaking away from the shore.
B are main reasons of many “disappearing island” .
C are the sources of many legends.
D contribute to the formation of permanent lake.
3	The unexpectedly eruption of volcano
A may result in the rise of sea level.
B may cover some floating islands.
C may lead to the advent of pumice rafts, which can have plants breeding on them. 
D is the result of heavy weather.
4	Why is more attention paid to floating islands?
A They failed to float since the weather became extremely drought.
B Most of scientists are interested in them.
C They not only explain some odd phenomenon but also provide topics to people. 
D They are unordinary and their operating conditions are meaningful and attractive.

 

Questions 5-8
Label the diagram below.
Choose NO MORE THAN TWO WORDS from the passage for each answer.
Write your answers in boxes 5-8 on your answer sheet.
Before Pirron Yallock Island formation
a small	a 5.


 
After Pirron Yallock Island formation


 
8	metres in diametre
Questions 9-13
Do the following statements agree with the information given in Reading Passage 1?
In boxes 9-13 on your answer sheet, write
TRUE	if the statement agrees with the information
FALSE	if the statement contradicts the information
NOT GIVEN	if there is no information on this
9	Floating islands occur mostly in wet areas, such as swamps and lakes.
10	On natural floating islands, there are more plants than other organic detritus.
11	The interpretations about the floating islands have not been confirmed by scientists publicly.
12	The floating islands of Pirron Yallock stopped to float in 1982 because of the lack of wind.
13	A motel illegally took water from the lake, which contributed to the decrease of water level.

 

READING PASSAGE 2
You should spend about 20 minutes on Questions 14-26, which are based on Reading Passage 2 below.
The Rise of Hollywood and the Arrival of Sound
A 	In cinema’s earliest days, the film industry was based in the nation’s theatrical centre, New York, and most films were made in New York or New Jersey, although a few were shot in Chicago, Florida, and elsewhere. Beginning in 1908, however, a growing number of filmmakers located in southern California, drawn by cheap land and labour, the ready accessibility of varied scenery, and a climate ideal for year-round outdoor filming. Moviemakers did not move to Hollywood to escape the film trust; the first studio to move to Hollywood, Selig, was actually a trust member.
B 	By the early 1920s, Hollywood had become the world’s film capital. It produced virtually all films shown in the United States and received 80 percent of the revenue from films shown abroad. During the 20s, Hollywood bolstered its position as world leader by recruiting many Europe’s most talented actors and actresses, like Greta Garbo and Hedy Lamarr, directors like Ernst Lubitsch and Josef von Sternberg, as well as camera operators, lighting technicians, and set designers. By the end of the decade, Hollywood claimed to be the nation’s fifth largest industry, attracting 83 cents out of every dollar Americans spent on amusement.
C Hollywood had also come to symbolise “the new morality” of the 1920s—a mixture of extravagance, glamour, hedonism, and fun. Where else but Hollywood would an actress like Gloria Swanson bath in a solid gold bathtub or a screen cowboy like Tom Mix have his name raised atop his house in six-foot-high letters. During the 1920s, movie attendance soared. By the middle of the decade, 50 million people a week went to the movies. In Chicago, in 1929, theatres had enough seats for half the city’s population to attend a movie each day
D As attendance rose, the movie-going experience underwent a profound change. During the twentieth century’s first two decades, movie going tended to conform to class and ethnic divisions. Urban workers attended movie houses that located in their own working class and ethnic neighbourhoods, where admission was extremely inexpensive, and a movie was often accompanied by an amateur talent show or a performance by a local ethnic troupe. These working class theatres were rowdy, high- spirited centres of neighbourhood sociability, where mothers brought their babies and audiences cheered, jeered, shouted, whistled, and stamped their feet.

 
E The theatres patronised by the middle class were quite different. Late in the new century’s first    decade, theatres in downtown or middle class neighbourhoods became increasingly luxurious. At first many of these theatres were designed in the same styles as many other public buildings, but by the mid-teens movie houses began feature French Renaissance, Egyptian, Moorish, and other exotic decors. Massachusetts’ Strand Theatre boasted “red plush seats”, “luxurious carpets”, “rich velour curtains”, “finely appointed toilet rooms”, and a $15,000 organ. Unlike the working class movie houses, which showed films continuously, these middle class theatres had specific show times and well-groomed, uniformed ushers to enforce standards of decorum.
F For decades, engineers had searched for a practical technology to add synchronised recorded sound to the movies. In the 1890s, Thomas Edison tried unsuccessfully to popularise the “kinetophone” which combined a kinetoscope with a phonograph. In 1923, Lee De Forest, an American inventor, demonstrated the practicality of placing a soundtrack directly on a film strip, presenting a newsreel interview with President Calvin Coolidge and musical accompaniments to several films. But the film industry showed remarkably little interest in sound, despite the growing popularity of radio in the 1890s. Hollywood feared the high cost of converting its production and exhibition to sound technology.
G Warner Brothers, a struggling industry newcomer, turned to sound as a way to compete with its larger rivals who neglected the value of sound. A prerecorded musical sound track eliminated the expense of live entertainment. In 1926, Warner Brothers released the film Don Juan. The popularity of The Jazz Singer, which was released in 1927, erased any doubts about the popular appeal of sound, and within a year, 300 theatres were wired for sound.
H The arrival of sound produced a sharp upsurge in movie attendance, which jumped from 50 million a week in the mid-20s to 110 million in 1929. But it also produced a number of fundamental transformations in the movies themselves. As Robert Ray has shown, sound made the movies more American. The words that A1 Jolson used in The Jazz Singer heralded the arrival of sound in the movies—“You aren’t hearing nothing yet”—embodied the new slangy, vernacular tone of the talkies. Distinctive American accents and inflections quickly appeared on the screen, like James Cagney’s New Yorkese or Gary Cooper’s Western drawl. The introduction of sound also encouraged new film genres like the musical, the gangster film, and comedies that relied on wit rather than slapstick.




 
I In addition, the talkies dramatically changed the movie-going experience, especially for the working class. Although many working class audiences saw silent films with a spoken dialogue, movie-goers were now expected to remain quiet. As one film historian has observed: “the talking audience for silent pictures became a silent audience for talking pictures.” Moreover, the stage shows and other forms of live entertainment that had appeared in silent movie houses increasingly disappeared, replaced by newsreels and animated shorts.
Questions 14-20
Complete each sentence with the correct ending, A-K, below.
Write the correct letter, A-K, in boxes 14-20 on your answer sheet.
35	Filmmakers who flocked to southern California are attracted by
36	During the 1920s Hollywood employed many
37	In 1929, the seating capacity of theatres in Chicago allowed
38	Originally many theatres were built in
39	Although radio were popular in the 1890s,
40	The advent of sound also promoted
41	Newsreels and cartoons took the place of
supervision.
22	By the end of the 1920s, Americans spent half of their money on amusement.
23	 During the first 20 years of the twentieth century, working class went to the cinemas in their own neighbourhoods, where the tickets were very cheap.
24	 Middle class theatres are very different because movies there were released continuously.
25 In vain did Thomas Edison try to popularise the “kinetophone”.
26 Warner Brothers’ rivals turned their noses up at the idea of sound.
READING PASSAGE 3
You should spend about 20 minutes on Questions 27-40, which are based on Reading Passage 3  below.
The Origin of Writing
A Writing was first invented by Sumerian in ancient Mesopotamia before 6,000 BC. It was also independently invented in Meso-America before 600 BC and probably independently invented in China before 1,300 BC. It may have been independently invented in Egypt around 3,000 BC although given the geographical proximity between Egypt and Mesopotamia the Egyptian may have learnt writing from the Sumerian.
B There are three basic types of writing systems. The written signs used by the writing systems could represent either a whole word, a syllable or an individual sound. Where the written sign represents a word the system is known as the logographic. The earliest writing systems such as the Sumerian cuneiform, Egyptian hieroglyphics and Mayan glyphs are predominantly logographics, just like modern Chinese and Japanese writing systems. Where the written sign represents a syllable the writing system is known as syllabic. Syllabic writing systems were more common in the ancient world than they are today. The Linear A and B writing systems of Minoan Crete and Mycenaean Greece are syllabic. The most common writing systems today are alphabetical. These involve the written sign (a letter) representing a single sound (known as a phoneme). The earliest known alphabetical systems were developed by Sumerian around 1,700 BC in the area of modern day Israel and Palestine. All written languages predominately used one or other of the above systems. They might, however, partly use the other systems. No written language is purely alphabetic, syllabic or logographic but may use elements from any or all systems.

 
C Such fully developed writing only emerged after development from simpler systems. Tally sticks with width notches on them to represent a number of sheep or to record a debt have been used in the past. Knotted strings have been used as a form of record keeping particularly in the area around the Pacific rim. They reached their greatest development with the Inca quipus where they were used to record payment of tribute and commercial transactions. A specially trained group of quipu makers and readers managed the whole system. They do not, however, amount to writing as they do not bear a conventional relationship to language. An alternative way was that tokens, which represented objects like sheep, were placed in containers, and then the containers were marked on the outside. The markers which indicate the number and type of tokens within the containers were graphically identical to some of the earliest pictograms used in Sumerian cuneiform. However cuneiform has approximately 1,500 signs and the marks on the outside of the containers can only explain the origins of a few of those signs.
D The first written language was the Sumerian cuneiform. Writing mainly consisted of records of numbers of sheep, goats and cattle and quantities of grain. Eventually clay tablets were used as a writing surface and were marked with a reed stylus to produce the writing. Thousands of such clay tablets have been found in the Sumerian city of Uruk. The earliest Sumerian writing consists of pictures of the objects mentioned such as sheep or cattle. Eventually the pictures became more abstract and were to consist of straight lines that looked like wedges.
E The earliest cuneiform was an accounting system consisting of pictograms representing commodities such as sheep and a number. The clay tablets found might for example simply state “ten sheep”. The use of pictures for the purpose of communication was used by native Americans and by the Ashanti people in Africa. Pictures can show qualities and characteristics which can not be shown by tally sticks and knot records. However, such writing obviously has its limitations and would not be regarded as a complete writing system. A complete writing system only developed with the process of spell. This occurs when the symbol ceases to represent an object and begins to represent a spoken sound, which in early cuneiform would be a word. This process was assisted when the symbols which initially looked very like the object they represented gradually became more abstract and less clearly related to an object. However while the symbol became more closely connected to words, it was words dealing with objects, such as sheep, bird or pot. It was still not possible to write more abstract ideas such as father, running, speech or foreigner.

 
	
F The solution to this problem was known as the rebus principle. Words with the same or similar pronunciation to an abstract word could be used to represent the abstract word. The sign for eye could be used to represent the word “I”. The sign for deer could represent the word “dear”. Which word is referred to by the picture is decided by an additional sign. Pictographs which originally represented a word began to represent the sound of the word. The rebus principle is used to represent abstract words in all word writing systems in the Aztec and Mayan in central America.
G The rebus principle led cuneiform becoming a form of logo-syllabic writing consisting of both logograms and syllabic writing. The effect of the change from logographic to logo-syllabic writing was substantial. Logographic writing cannot produce normal prose and is restricted to nouns, numbers, names and adjectives. The vast majority of early Sumerian writing consisted of bureaucratic records of products received or distributed. Only when syllabic writing was introduced into cuneiform did it become possible to write prose such as myths and royal propaganda.
H The next major development in writing in the old world was the development of the alphabet. The alphabet was developed out of Egyptian hieroglyphs which contained 24 signs for 24 Egyptian consonants. About 1,700 BC Semite who knew Egyptian hieroglyphs began making certain changes in their writing system. They put the letters in a particular sequence and gave them simple names to assist learning and ease of memory. They also dropped the logograms and other signs used in hieroglyphs and just kept the Egyptian consonants and restricted signs to those for individual consonants. Finally they introduced vowels into their alphabet. Alphabets were soon spread over most of the world as they provide both flexibility and simplicity for a writing system.
Questions 27-30
Complete the summary below using the list of words, A-I, below.
Write the correct letter, A-I, in boxes 27-30 on your answer sheet.
Three Types of Writing systems
There are three types of writing systems. The logographic utilises written sign to
represent a 27	Logographics are 28	in the earliest writing
systems. Syllabic writing systems were more common in the ancient world, as they adopt
written sign symbolising a 29 	The most common alphabetical systems
use a letter to represent a single sound. It was 30 	who developed the
earliest known alphabetical systems around 1,700 BC.

 

Questions 31-34
Complete the table below.
Choose NO MORE THAN TWO WORDS from the passage for each answer. Write your answers in boxes 31-34 on your answer sheet.

Undeveloped Writing Systems

Method	
Functions
31		. stand for sheep . record 32	

knotted strings	
. keep an account of payment of tribute and 33	

markers	
. imply the details of 34	within the containers
Questions 35-40
Look at the following events (Questions 35-40 ) and the list of people below.
Match each event with the correct people, A-G.
Write the correct letter, A-G, in boxes 35-40 on your answer sheet.
NB Some options may match more than one statement.
They might have independently invented writing 5,000 years ago.
They invented a written language which consisted of signs looked like wedges.
They used pictures for the purpose of communication.
They used rebus principle to represent abstract words in their word writing systems.
They used writing to record the receiving and distribution of products.
They developed the alphabet from Egyptian hieroglyphs.
List of People
A Egyptians 
B Native Americans C Aztec and Mayan 
D Semite 
E Chinese 
F Sumerian 
G Japanese


